hello everybody my name is J I'm one of
the expert IELTS teachers here at e to
language what we're going to do in this
live class is look at IELTS writing task
2 this applies to both general and
academic and I'm going to give you some
top tips so you can score 8 or more in
vocabulary so on test day you're going
to be graded on your writing on four
things and one of those things is called
lexical resource and it's scored between
0 and 9 lexical resource is just another
word for vocabulary so what we're going
to focus on in this live class is
vocabulary and more specifically we're
going to look at vocabulary range and
we're going to look at vocabulary
precision because they're kind of two
parts of the one thing that you need to
be aware of right so let's start with
vocabulary range what I want you to do
is tell me what is wrong with this
paragraph
you
so this paragraph is perfectly accurate
in terms of its grammar it's right on
topic but it would score poorly for
vocabulary because this author has
written the word lying lying lies lie
lies many times you know in a single
word what they've done is they have
repeated a particular keyword and you
need to try to avoid doing this because
if you do repeat particular words the
highest score you can get for vocabulary
will be 6 and that will bring down your
overall average so we need to think
about how to fix it I'm gonna give you
30 seconds and I want you to think of
particular synonyms or different words
that have the same meaning that you
could use to replace these repeated
words
you
okay so instead of lying you could say
deceiving someone instead of lie you can
say distort the truth or instead of lies
plural now and you could say
fabrications so the first tip and this
is extremely important is that you
should use synonyms where possible to
vary your vocabulary lying could become
deceiving lie as a verb could be distort
the truth lies plural noun could become
fabrications you could even turn lie
into not tell the truth into a negative
that would still be considered as
synonym so it's just a different way to
say the same thing but you need to make
sure it's precise let me elaborate on
that you need to be careful okay so
let's talk about vocabulary precision
the second half of this what's wrong
with this paragraph here
you
what's wrong with this paragraph is that
the particular synonyms this writer has
used our imprecise schools and
kindergartens and colleges are different
things they're related they're related
to education they're Institutes but they
have very different meanings food
nourishment and solids just sounds
really strange
they are sort of synonymous but they're
really not at the same time these are
very imprecise children and infants and
teenagers are different things they're
all people they're all young people but
they all have specific meanings that in
this context are unrelated to each other
these are imprecise synonyms and I can
tell you I've seen a lot of IELTS
writing and I see a lot of people use
particular words that they think are
synonyms but they're just not quite
precise and they sound weird so that
would also reduce your score so tip
number two here is that some words have
no direct synonym for example a word
like children well I guess you could say
young people but that's not very precise
food what's a synonym for food of school
you could say institute but that's
imprecise
what about obese well you could say fat
but that's kind of non-technical and a
little bit informal so if this happens
and on test day you find yourself
repeating words and thinking oh I can't
think of a synonym for this particular
word then you need to do this what have
I done in this paragraph
you
what I've done is I've taken the keyword
like schools and I've used a plural
pronoun they
and I've also used words like school
canteens to be more precise for work a
word like food I've said types of food
I've said food options and then I was
just left out the word food and said
more varied options which is also fine
for the word obesity I've created a
phrase here to put on weight okay so you
can do it so tip number three years if
there is no direct synonym you need to
rewrite the sentence for example you can
write children you can turn that into
students and be more specific food can
become options because it references
food schools can use a pronoun like they
schools could also use school canteens
or school cafeterias to be more specific
and the word obese you could use a
phrase like putting on weight for
example so there is a way around it when
you can't quite find the right synonym
okay
all right so so far we've boosted our
score up to about seven seven point five
that's pretty good but what we want to
do is push it up to eight eight point
five or even nine so how do we do that
we do that by using uncommon words but
you need to be really careful here you
need to do this well and what I want to
alert you to is some conspiracy theories
there is some junk on YouTube be careful
of the videos you watch on YouTube I've
seen a number of videos saying use these
three words to boost your IELTS writing
score
that's nonsense that's not going to
happen you do need to use uncommon words
but they need to be completely related
to the topic on which you're writing
okay let me explain in more detail but
before I do make sure you click the
subscribe button hit like leave a
comment and share this video with your
friends if you think it's good okay tip
number four you need to try to use some
uncommon words not Lots
not heaves just some well it's like
dietary patterns sedentary lifestyles
health epidemic combat obesity
prevention these are all words related
to the topic of obesity or health for
children for example now I would only
use these words because they are related
to the topic only because they fit all
right here's a paragraph that uses high
vocabulary between 8 and 9 and what I
want to draw your attention to is the
fact that they are not individual single
words often when we talk about
vocabulary we're talking about phrases
not necessarily single words because in
order to write well in English you need
to use these phrases
these collocations these natural
sounding expressions right so let me
read this one to you childhood obesity
is a persistent health issue that can be
partly attributed to the ways in which
schools cater to their students it is
well known there's an error there it is
well known that cafeteria menus are
seldom healthy more often than not
contain food items that are high in
saturated fats and sugars if schools
were to overhaul their menus in favor of
less calorie dense foods there would be
no doubt they would no doubt be a
decrease in the number of young people
suffering from overweight issues this is
good vocabulary it's good because many
of those words are uncommon but they're
directly related to that specific topic
in the essay question I haven't repeated
words I've used a range of synonyms and
phrases ok so that would push my score
for vocabulary into the range of 8 and 9
so let's recap the vocabulary top tips
that we've learned in this lesson number
one you should use synonyms where
possible don't repeat specific key words
number two some words have no direct
synonym
if that's the case then number three you
need to rewrite the sentence and think
about using pronouns think about using
phrases think about using a negative in
order to express that meaning in a
different way okay and number four you
should try to use some uncommon words if
they are directly related to the
question prompt cool bananas guys if you
need help with your IELTS check out e to
language comm it's a hundred percent
online test preparation how it works is
like this it's pretty cool so in the
middle here we have a platform into
language comm where we have overviews
methods lessons practice questions mock
tests grammar lessons etc then from
there you can book one-on-one tutorials
with expert arts teachers for your
writing speaking or reading you can also
join the daily live group classes with
everybody else and you can submit your
writing and speaking for feedback so if
you need help with your IELTS check out
WWE 2 language comm you can sign up for
free thanks very much for watching I
hope that was helpful and don't forget
to subscribe see you soon
[Music]